Coaster 83/83+ By Matt Roberts

Game Idea by: Jason George (drummerman2002__@hotmail.com, www.hollowblue.com,
				http://yourbuddyicon.freeservers.com)

NOTE TO ASM PROGRAMMERS: Just like with Glasscars, I'm offering to give you
the documented source to Coaster's 3D engine. I'd still like you to write me
personally at mattrob@wam.umd.edu for it, even if you've already asked for
the Glasscars engine. I will then send you the latest version of every engine
I have made, that is, once I finish and refine them. I can assure you I've
made them easier for you to use than ever. If you can use SPRXOR or SpriteOn,
you can use Matt3D, and you will be able to write a game like Glasscars in a
flash.

A WORD ABOUT COMPATIBILITY:
	Coaster tracks on the 83 and 83+ are exactly the same. The actual
Coaster program is calc-specific, but if you have an 83 and your buddy has
an 83+, or vica-versa, you can still send over your track files for him to
ride.

COASTER: Quick Tour

	Included with Coaster are several demo tracks. To open one, start the
game, select a name (other than "New") from the list that pops up, and
hit enter twice. That brings up that coaster in edit mode, where you can
change anything about the track you want. To run the track in first-person,
hit the Y= key (labeled "Options") and select Run Track. Then, just sit back
and enjoy the ride.

Note: 2nd toggles the car while you're in ride mode.

COASTER: Step by Step

	Coaster starts out with a neat opening sequence, which was thought up
by Nick Haigler (<jxsnt@aol.com>). You can skip it by pressing quit, or wait
until it ends and then hitting any key. Then, you have a list of coasters
that are on the calculator (in RAM, they won't show up if they're archived).
If no Coaster files are in RAM, the only option will be "New," which will
allow you to start a new coaster from scratch. I suggest practicing on one
of the included, pre-made tracks first. Use the arrow keys and enter to
select the track you want to open. The tracks appear in the order in which
they were created/sent to the calculator.
	Next it will prompt you for a name for that coaster. If you want, you
can change the name (characters A-Z and " ") by using all four arrow keys
and the delete key. Hit enter when you have a name you like.
	Now you are in 3D edit mode. Hit the "Options" key and then select
"Keys" at any time to get a list of which key does what. Zoom and Graph
always change the currently selected piece. The left and right arrow keys
change the type of the selected piece. A list of types are as follows:

Straight
Small Right Turn
Medium Right Turn
Large Right Turn
Small Left Turn
Medium Left Turn
Large Left Turn
Small Loop
Big Loop
Corkscrew

	The up and down arrow keys can angle some pieces up or down. Some
pieces,like loops, cannot be angled. Delete deletes the current piece,
and Stat inserts a piece.
	You can also control the view in 3D edit mode. This is sometimes
necessary to see the part of the coaster you are working on. The view is
controlled by Stat, Del, and the arrow keys (the same keys that edit
pieces) but you have to hold down 2nd in order to get them to change the
view. For example, pressing 2nd-Up arrow moves your point of view up and
over the coaster. 2nd-Left moves your point of view left. 2nd-Del and
2nd-Stat zoom in and out. Note that wherever your point of view is, you
are always looking towards the exact center of the Coaster world.
	At the top left corner of the editing screen is data on the
currently selected piece. First is the piece number, followed by a "/",
then the piece type and size, followed by a "/", and finally the angle
of the piece. Notice that you cannot select or do anything to the
"station"; that is the beginning of the coaster. The only time you
have an opportunity to move or reorient the station is when you start
a new track (See the section on new tracks).
	The Coaster world is pretty big, but it does have edges. If the
track goes outside these edges or gets too low, an error message appears
that says "Track outside of World!" Any portion of the track that is not
within the world will not show up on screen, whether you are in edit or
ride mode. You can ride on a track that goes outside of the world, but
the ride will end before you actually go outside the world.
	When you hit Options, a menu comes up with all kinds of things to
choose from. Here is what each option does:

Run Track: Lets you ride the current track, as-is. Pressing Quit during
	the ride will bring you back to the Options menu.

Edit: Sends you back into the 3D editor.

Special: Here you can change, with Enter, whether the current piece is
	an accelerator, decelerator (brake), lift (the winch-thing at the
	beginning of a real roller coaster), or a normal piece.

Bank: This angles the current piece axially, if applicable. Normally, you
	would bank a left turn to the left, so that riding the coaster feels
	more natural.

Track: Changes between Steel and Magic Steel. The ride is the same with
	either option, but with Magic Steel, the cross-braces in the track
	don't show up, so it looks like you're riding on magically suspended
	rails!

Keys: This brings up the on-calc help file.

Quit: Self-explanatory.

	Note that you can use the keys you use in the 3D editor in the
Options screen as well. They work the same way, except there is no
way to angle a piece from the Options menu, as the up and down arrow keys
are used to select different menu items. For example, "Zoom" and "Graph"
still select the next/previous pieces, as the piece ID at the top of the
screen will show you. There are several reasons you might edit the track
from here instead of the 3D editor. One is that it is faster then the 3D
editor when dealing with a long track, and the keys are easier to press.

COASTER: Starting a new track

	To start your own track from scratch, select New from the track
selection screen. Then give it the name of your choice. Once you press
Enter, you will be in the 3D edit mode, and a message on the screen will
flash: "Place Station (STAT)." This is your opportunity to start the
coaster from any point in the world you want to. Note that the view
controls work as normal, and that the station starts out in the exact
center of the world. You can move it around with the arrow keys. The Del
key changes the direction it's facing. Press Stat when you have it where
you want it. Then you can build the track as normal.

COASTER: Saving Tracks

	When you exit Coaster, a message may appear asking you if you want
to save the changes to a new coaster. Before you say yes or no (Y/N),
there are some things you should know about how Coaster saves tracks.

1. Coaster never edits a file, or deletes a file. All it can do is open
	a file and create a new one if you make any changes to it and
	want them saved. For example, if you open up a pre-made coaster,
	change it, and then save and exit, the original file remains, but
	a new track file that reflects your changes is saved to the calc.

2. The following things constitute changing of the track:
	a. Changing the name
	b. Changing a piece in any way
	c. Changing the track type
	d. Adding/deleting pieces

3. When Coaster makes a new track file on the calc, it names the file
	with a name based on the coaster's name. For example, the coaster
	MATTS WILD RIDE would be saved as MATTS WI. If you save a track
	of a same or similar name twice, Coaster will find the first
	unique filename to save it under, since you can't have two files
	of the same name on a calc. For example, if I opened, changed, and
	resaved my coaster several times, it would be automatically saved
	under the following names:

	1st: MATTS WI
	2nd: NATTS WI
	3rd: OATTS WI

	And so forth. Note that if you do not have enough memory to hold
	a new file when Coaster attempts to save it, wierd things may happen.


WHAT TO DO IF COASTER WON'T LET YOU INSERT PIECES
	If you fill up to much memory by placing to many complex pieces like
	loops and turns in your coaster, Coaster will stop you from inserting
	more pieces. When Coaster's memory fills up, it will not let you
	change pieces either. All you can do is go delete some pieces of the
	coaster to free up memory.


A WORD ABOUT YOUR TRACKS:
	Think your design is good? Worth giving to other people to ride?
	By all means, upload it to ticalc.org, in their 83/83+ misc. game
	levels section.


KNOWN BUGS:
	Apparently all the games I've written screw with the value of
	"rand" which is actually a Ti-83 variable essential to finding
	random numbers. If you ever use a random function and get an
	"OVERFLOW" error, just reset rand by storing a number to it,
	i.e. 50->rand (Enter).
	Coaster may corrupt itself and become unstable if you add
	a large number of pieces at a point where they are not inside
	the coaster world, then put them inside the world all at once.
	To avoid any problems, don't add to many pieces to a large
	coaster while Coaster is displaying a "Track outside of world"
	error.


IN CLOSING
	That's about it. Write me <mattrob@wam.umd.edu> if you have any
questions or bug reports. There's bound to be a couple bugs. But, KEEP
THE COMMENTS TO A MINIMUM. This is as good as Coaster gets on the calc,
people! I tried hard, but I can't give you anything more! I mean, look
at it! It's like 13k! Without Ion's/MirageOS's efficient memory useage,
it would have been impossible to write!

	Remember that I will continue making games as long as you keep playing
your 83. I've got some good ones coming, and soon, too! Sorry Coaster took
so long.

	Thanks to the people who contributed on this project, namely Jason
George, Nick Haigler, and Robin Kay, whose line drawing function has
improved all of my 3D endeavors a great deal.